
Classes and Objects 
Constructors and Destructor	
Copy Constructor- shallow copy and deep copy
Constructor initilizer list (for nonstatic  const & reference variables) and the initilisation inside the constructor
copy constructor and assignment operator.
Why we need cp ctr ?
When cpy ctr gets called ?
Can you hv pur virtual dtor ?
Cpy ctor for with char ptr ?
When we can't create an object for a pure virtual function then what is the use of pure virtual destructor
Operator overloading (=) , how to avoid leaks in this
Virtual Constructors and destructors

OOPS Concepts:
abstraction and interfaces and its use.
access specifier-private,protected,public
class with pointer member functions
Size of empty class, class with one virtual function
Can char* point to an empty class?
what is this pointer, can it be deleted?
Abstract class
interface
virtual functions
Vtble and vptr
Virtual table and pointers
example of real time polymorphism ,encapsulation,abstraction,inheritance
private inheritance?? And real time scenario examples?? When should we mainly use??
Employee class with setter getter and inheritance


Design pattern in details:
Creational patterns:
1.Singleton Design Pattern-
why methods are static in singleton , why constructor is set private, why use singleton pattern
2.factory Pattern
Structural patterns:
Behavioural patterns:
state ,observer
1.      Singleton
2.      Factory
3.      Adaptor
4.      Observer
Agile Technology

References
References (interview question with examples)
References and pointer
passsing by ref and passing by pointer
How do you initialise a reference?
dangling pointer
9)Pointers-void,far,near,wild,uninitialized pttr, NULL
Auto-ptr and shared_ptr
Casting in c++
 Casting – Different kinds and in depth
understanding (with example)
Static, extern, const how they are initialize
static members and functions
static class ?
const members and functions

Template
What is spacialise template?
STLs
types of STL's
difference between map & vector
Vector operations 
Dynamic Memory Allocation
Heap Memory and Stack Memory
Exception handling
UML diagrams:
UML diagram for a company and class diagram
Data Structures:
String class and its functions.
Difference betn new and malloc
difference between array and linked list
Write a program  for linked list, queue,
stack
1.Postfix Prefix ,expressions and associativity
2.linked list-insertion,deletion,reversal
Sorting algo:- quick,selection,bubble, insertion

Multithreading- pthread , thread sync,thread mutex,thread management,pthread API's
used -lpthread in linux to link programs ,present in std library for windows
Mutex - a variable for IPC and synchronization
Semaphore - a variable for specifying set of operations to be done in mutual excusion fork - to fork a child process
vfork - to fork a child process, and to guarantee the child executes first so that the child address space can be replaced by entirely new process by any of exec family of call
GTEST fwk

Programs:
prime/non prime program
no of occurrences of a digit in a range
program to check if the linked list is looped or not.
Fibonacci series


puzzles:
1.4X4 cube and cuts to have 64 pieces
2.auto travels 100 km and has 2 extra tyres ,distance so that each ttyre can travel equal distance.
3. milk puzzle with 3L,5L,8L ltr containers


MISC:
collection - hast table,map, vector, binary tree
Multi threading
Memory Management 
Marshaling
SDI,MDI
TCP/IP client server connection
Message passing, delegation, IPC
File handling
name mangling
object slicing
GDB
segmentation  faults,
memory leaks



Questions at prescient tech

1.Postfix Prefix ,expressions and associativity
2.linked list,

prime/non prime program
no of occurrences of a digit in a range
program to check if the linked list is looped or not.
Fibonacci series
UML diagram for a company and class diagram
puzzles:
1.4X4 cube and cuts to have 64 pieces
2.auto travels 100 km and has 2 extra tyres ,distance so that each ttyre can travel equal distance.
3. milk puzzle with 3L,5L,8L ltr containers

que:
1.difference between array and linked list , map & vector, new and malloc,shallow copy and deep copy
2.dangling pointer
3.class diagram for company
4.Types of UML diagram.
5.singleton pattern code
6.abstraction and interfaces,use


Pratiti interview:
Project overview,architecture,
design patterns used?
difference between abstraction and encapsulation,their similarities and relation
copy constructor and assignment operator
shallow copy and deep copy
virtual constructor ad virtual destructor ,private ?
can destructor be overlaoded?
can destructor be private declared


Amdocs :
1. what are the cpp concepts used in your prev projects
2. register keyword in c 
3. Database queries DDM and DDL 
4. RDBMS
5. DBMS connection
6. linux commands : find,grep ,recursive search
7. VIrtual functions: overriding and overloading
8. namespace